# Overview
The Conditional Variational Autoencoder (cVAE) is an advanced generative deep learning model that we have specifically designed and trained for the task of exoplanet interior structure inversion. As an alternative to the Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) method, the inference process of our cVAE is conceptually analogous to MCMC. Whereas MCMC samples from a posterior distribution, the cVAE decodes parameters from a latent distribution built by the encoder, with both following an inference path from a distribution to specific values. Unlike earlier deep learning approaches such as the Mixture Density Network (MDN), our model directly maps observable planetary parameters to the specific values of its internal structure, from the core to the surface layer. Furthermore, we have developed a method to simulate observational errors using a covariance matrix. Experiments show that when inferring parameters from data with observational uncertainties, the cVAE demonstrates significantly greater stability and accuracy compared to the MDN.

Files with the `.parquet` suffix constitute the foundational dataset. This dataset is generated by a three-layer interior structure model and defines the prior ranges for planetary properties and their corresponding observable parameters. It serves as the basis for creating the final datasets used to train the cVAE, onto which simulated observational errors are subsequently added.

Files with the `.npy` suffix are the test sets. They are created by adding simulated observational errors to the source dataset (`.parquet` files) and then partitioning the data. These files are essential for validating model performance and conducting comparative analyses. As we have comprehensively explored various error scales, the test sets corresponding to different error magnitudes have been organized into separate folders for convenient access.

Files with the `.pth` suffix are the model weight files, trained using the PyTorch deep learning framework. All provided models are fully trained ("well-trained") and ready for direct loading and application to the exoplanet interior structure inversion task. These files store all the parameters learned by the model during training, which are the core of its predictive performance. By loading these `.pth` files, researchers can rapidly reproduce our experimental results or use them as a foundation for further fine-tuning and development. Our repository includes `.csv` files containing MCMC inversion results for several representative exoplanets.

# License
## Software
The code within this repository, including but not limited to`.ipynb` and `.py` files, is released under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for more details.

Data

The data within this repository are divided into three main types:
+ `.csv` files contain MCMC inversion results for several representative exoplanets and are made.
+ `.parquet` files are used to generate the observational-error added dataset, which is used to train the cVAE.
+ `.npy` files are the test dataset for performance validation and comparison.

All datas are available under the CC-BY license.
Please cite the source accordingly when utilizing any of the data.

# Quick Start Guide
NOTE:
This project needs Python>=3.7 and the version of Pytorch used in development is 2.5.1 and cuda12.4, 
considering the different version of cuda in different PC, the requirements.txt will not contain Pytorch.
You should check your cuda's version, install the suitable [Pytorch](https://pytorch.org/get-started/previous-versions/)

Clone this repository, create a new environment using Anaconda:
```bash
conda create --name new_env python=3.10
```
Make sure your current location is in this repo where you clone, and:
```bash
anaconda activate new_env # or activate new_env
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
Make sure there are no exception report and open Jupyter
```bash
jupyter notebook
```
Any questions are welcome, please submit it in Issue




